With over two decades working in the environmental consulting and local government fields. From leading waste reduction programs on the sidetrack coast, to championing natural asset management in Gibson's, to advocating for public transit and the infrastructure, Jeremy's career has been rooted in sustainability. And now as the first BC Green member elected on the mainland, he's helping shape a new chapter for the party. So in a session we'll hear from Jeremy. We'll hear from Jeremy on his reflections on the direction that the BC Greens are headed in, the party's clean energy priorities, and we'll also dive into how those policies intersect with the realities many of us are navigating on the ground, from permitting to procurement, to Indigenous partnerships, and to developing realities. So with that, please join me in welcoming Jeremy Perry. Thanks, okay that works. Thanks Nina. So I'm really happy to be here and it's very familiar to me because as a young engineer and environment consultant in the 2000s I used to attend these conferences back when it was IPP BC some of you probably remember that I do see a few familiar faces so it's great to be brought to speed and it's great to be on the on the cusp of a new age for this industry. I know that 15 years has been a long time but time but there's a lot of excitement in this room so yeah so I got to work on small hydro projects in the club and valley, upper bridge, Vancouver Island and up north as working on environmental mitigation and engineering constraints so and now I'm an elected representative for the for the BC Greens bit of a strange journey through local government but we've elected two green MLA's days, neither of us returning were brand new, so we're in a steep learning curve, but right after the election, very tight election as you remember, we were thrown into a negotiation with the government to support them on budget and confidence motions, and we were able to agree on a series of projects that we were going to work on together, shared priorities, help housing transit, forest, electoral form. The one that's probably of most interest to you is a full review of the CleanBC climate plan, which is a year ahead of schedule and we agreed the science is moving quickly, the needs for energy are schedule. changing quickly. So we worked very closely with Minister Dix to establish in terms of reference and then select expert panelists, Maren Smith and Dan Vanilovich probably don't need any introduction in this room but they they bring a lot of expertise to this this table and so with input from stakeholders in the public. holders of the public and the Climate Solutions Council they are doing a full review that's supposed to be finished by October so I know people think of a review as a bit of a yonder and won't produce anything for you but this is a pretty critical stage for our climate plan as you know we're not we haven't been meeting our targets and we've unfortunately in a bit of a lull in terms of public enthusiasm for climate action I'm hoping and I'm very confident that it's cyclical and we will and we will resume our focus on climate when we get through some of these other challenges that we're facing but we're not meeting our targets and we need to figure out how to do that. So updating from the 2018 plan and the scope for these reviewers is everything's on the table. We're looking for transformative change. We're looking for a paradigm shift and how we tackle climate and this industry will be a huge part of that. I'm not going to prejudge their results but I know the electrification. I know that electrification will be a major, major push. So, we're really excited for the previous call to power and the one that's coming up. All of you are leading the way and this and government should be listening to you. Really encouraged to hear some of the earlier presentations. We're beating IEA projections for solar. First Nations financing seems to be making major strides. So, what are our great caucus things that we use in overarching? overarching vision for power in this province. Instead of lurching from call to call 15 years apart and rebates get brought in, rebates get canceled, we need a big picture energy pathways assessment. And so a lot has been done. There's been a big rush that tariff threat has caused this government to move quickly and in some ways that can be good. I have lived the permitting genre or sorry the permitting. of, you know, 15 different ministries, 15 different permits. I'm glad to see a one window option. As we all know, the BC Energy Regulary hasn't been involved in this before, so we're very concerned to see what their process will look like and how they'll talk to us. And it's great to have Michelle speak to that earlier. So we're looking at proposed legislation from this government that has some pretty changes about how energy projects... energy projects are assessed, including the major North Coast transmission line. So if it promotes streamlining and it creates a window, that's great, but we also need to make sure that we don't rush to get this wrong. So we need to get this right. And I know we all, and I share the frustration that government moves can move quite slowly. But to take some of these bills, Bill 7 is the most notable one that you'll have heard of, Bill 14 and 15 are. and 15 are streamlining, but concentrating a huge amount of power in the cabinet, putting it through the legislature and your newly elected representatives. So to think that these bills will go from just, well, from a draft 10 days ago to being law by end of May, that is extremely quick and we believe that they need the proper screening. So that's our job, to make sure that we don't sacrifice the rigor of environmental our mental assessment and the social license that we all know that we get from proper consultation. So I can't stress enough that the BC Greens obviously support development of renewable energy and are supportive of ways to speed this up so we can get these things built. But we are very wary of living too fast and seeing a social backlash and we know that there is resistance to some of these, some communities. So you break communities along. allow First Nations to participate, and those are key to success. We haven't heard that from some of the stakeholders so far, so we'll be examining the extent of this bill and these bills and trying to figure out how to make them work. I'm not here to monologue, actually. I think Ina has one question, but I'd actually like to hear some questions for you, but I also want to have statements in the- have statements in the form of questions because really you are the experts you've been dealing with this regulatory regime and this industry for years and I'd like to know how the province can harness the potential that's in this room and this really clean energy should be non-partisan. This is about how we this is the way forward we all know this is the way forward and we have to we have some catching up to do but it should not be driven by partisanship so please think of a question or statement I'd like to hear I'd like to hear your thoughts on bringing in a BC Energy regulator and some of the other industry conditions and constraints and I'll go ahead and take one question first. I did have five questions prepared, but Emily Valeria was really eager to hear from the room, so I'll ask my one and then we'll open it up to the floor. So thank you so much Jeremy. There's obviously a lot of thought going into the green's approach and I know that everyone in the room is eager to connect that. to connect that vision to the work that we're doing in the clean energy sector, so especially when it comes to delivering projects on the ground. So my one question before we turn to the floor. Your election 2024, most recently last fall, rightly identified that the election platform document that your party put out, rightly identified the need for long-term procurement targets and workforce development as someone trying to plan and finance these projects, is someone trying to. I say predictability is everything. So what would a stable, investor-friendly, clean energy plan look like from a BC Green perspective? One that delivers both on climate outcomes and economic certainty. I know you touched on it a little bit, but let us know, what's your plan? Yeah, I mean, I think we all know that predictability is key, and it's, like I've said, we've been searching between closer power every 15 years. every 15 years, this doesn't work. I think the key piece for us is, like I said, government needs to articulate a vision and how we're going to get there. I think, like any enterprise, there needs to be targets that we actually make that the climate targets are excessively frustrating because there's really no consequences to not meeting them and that's really not the way that we should be. It needs to be linked to some kind of... be linked to some kind of consequences. We're extremely keen on supporting technological innovation, so the fact that geothermal and battery storage is included in this call is really, really important and all the other innovation that's taken place, we just heard a whole lot about solar and energy, community energy co-ops. We do have a paired-up shift in this province. It's not all resource extraction there. We can be a can be a clean canada, can be an energy superpower. We need to look at domestic use. And then the certainty that comes with funding and training and job creation, we'll hear about skilled trades. So we need to set the foundation for this now. I mean, we need to be setting it five to 10 years ago and that's where we need to say, we know where we're going, BC Hydro may be building a big hydropower dam, but we know we're gonna need more energy. So this is... This is, you know, we saw the curves versus the IEA projections on solar and I think we need to be bullish about planning for this for the future and be bold. Any questions from the floor or should I go to the rest of the questions? That's a good thing. I've got five. Thanks for sticking with us to the end of the day. So you touched on it a little bit, but let's expand on it a little bit. to expand on it a little bit further. Given today's geopolitical and economic uncertainties, energy security is coming in more and more. How do the Greens view energy sovereignty and what role should renewable energy play in strengthening EC's self-sufficiency? Yeah, I mean, energy security, energy sovereignty, sovereignty is clearly important in the discussions about an East-West energy grid. I think in this crisis does create an opportunity for us to find those and part of Bill 7 is about decreasing inter-provincial trade barriers. I think. I guess I just want to draw the distinction between energy sovereignty at home and the supply of energy that we need here versus massive exports of gas, of the refined gas. To the Greens, that's applying to disaster and it's not necessarily... necessarily part of our energy sovereignty. We'd like to look within our borders, you know, use the use the resources that we have here to strengthen that sovereignty and move forward with that spot. It's not necessarily about export. And I think, you know, the transition is key to where we land in this. If the US is going to back away from renewables then maybe that's an opportunity for us. I know you're not all seeing that on the ground. seeing that on the ground yet but that's that's what we would hope to you know create those conditions that allow that to happen. Okay thank you. I see there's that we've got one question that's come in so question is what specifically do the BC Greens want to change with bill 14 is there a balance between regulatory efficiency and environmental protections? Yeah thanks that's a that's a great question it's trying to achieve that that balance and bill 14 is is I'll say less challenging for us than Bill 15 because Bill 15 is just a blanket cabinet determines what's the significant project and it goes ahead. It can be a very streamlined environmental assessment process that is essentially what cabinet decides. Bill 14 is, you know, it's about renewable energy so we are trying to be supportive. We're trying to work our ways through it but the changes that we want are really about transparency and oversight. If BC Energy Regulator is going to regulate these, that's great. They're currently not as transparent as they'd say the Environmental Assessment Office. But also the cabinet decisions that are going to set that process need to be transparent and they need to be accountable. With Bill 7, we agreed that we would have a legislative committee of all parties so they could nonpartisan have a look at regulations after they're established. And at least that gives the opportunity to point out what's... point of what's what's not working fine the unintended consequences and maybe change change course if if it's all done and closed doors the cabinet then that's that's not that's not going to work it's not that's going to build more mistrust in government it's going to create more of a backlash which I don't want any of you to to see because I think these projects are really important so the the balances is more about transparency and oversight and making sure that these processes don't get short circuited and to the detriment of really all of us. Okay, thank you. I think we've got time for just one last quick follow-up question. It's actually a question that I put together, and I feel like it goes hand-in-hand with the one that was just asked. Specifically around, I feel like your party has been a little bit critical. I watched for a question period, and I've seen some of the remarks or heard some of the remarks with regard to the most recent procurement, pricing, and so on and so forth, and obviously permitting. so for the obviously permitting reform. As someone working directly in the industry and sector, I'm curious, who are you consulting with to form these positions? Are you talking to developers, into those nations as partners? Local communities as part of that dialogue or does it mostly happen within the policy and advocacy sphere and circles? Yeah, great question. Victoria can be a bit of a bubble and that's, you know, I've spent a lot of time there in the last few months the last few months and I'm looking forward to getting back to get grounded in the seas guide and the rest of the province. So there is some policy pieces that has a bit disconnected in Victoria. I've heard from some developers, I'm here to put my name out there to hear from Mora. I would say we take most of our guidance at this time from First Nations, so for example the Union of Missionary Chiefs has come up strongly on UNPIL 15 and we believe that they are... And we believe that they really have a strong argument to make about free fire and foreign consent and participation. Same with First Nations Leadership Council. And then when it comes to some of these, that local governments are also throwing up caution, not so much about the renewable energy bill 14, but about bill 15 and the infrastructure projects in general. The kind of steamrolling local governments has been down in the past. I would argue it's not. it's not good for the overall process. I don't think it's good for business. I don't think it's good for public trust and institutions. So the people that were listening to you are, to some degree, you're kind of typical green advisors, but my job, I got into this because I thought we needed more people with the technical background, more engineers and scientists and politics. And so, And so I'll listen to anybody and if there's proponents that have really strong opinions about how this should be done, I would love to hear from you. And I've got some cards and you can find me online. But it is really important to hear. You have people doing it on the ground. There are people who are sitting in offices, as we all know, who haven't done this work and they need to hear from you. And sometimes that can be really difficult to get that message through. So. I'm open to hearing more and I think that's kind of key. That's what government needs to do to it. Sometimes we get on this ideological track and we get to television on what we should do and we're just trying to make sure that doesn't happen. Thank you very much. So I'm afraid that that's all the time that we have. Jeremy, thank you so much for being here today.